# InaBox - Rails Monitoring Application

## What is InaBox?
InaBox is a Rails-based system that allows developers and system admins to obtain data regarding system utilization, as well as some basic data visualization. This is acheived through use of the [VMStat](https://github.com/threez/ruby-vmstat) written by [threez](https://github.com/threez). In a way, InaBox can be thought of as a front-end for this gem. All credit for the ability to gather system statistics in a ruby environment goes to [VMStat](https://github.com/threez/ruby-vmstat)

## Why use this?
True, if you have a VMWare environment that provides this statistics, they can provide much better real-time statistics as they do not have to rely on the HTTP protocol to transmit the data back and forth. I am not presuming that there is any inherent advantage to using InaBox over these VMWare utilities, however for those whose systems are not running in a convenient VMWare environment, or have older systems which are relevant enough to warrant monitoring it, but are not relevant enough to justify a complete migration to newer architecture, InaBox can be installed.

Another use case is for small developers that may have services spread across several providers. I personally use several boxes across AWS, DO, and another European provider. By utilizing InaBox's end-to-end philosophy a small developer can monitor any Linux box across providers, or even over vast geographical distances in the real world. InaBox was built on the understanding that as long as a human can ping an address on the command-line, and the networking port used to transmit the data is accessible, monitoring will begin immediately after input into the InaBox Control Panel, with the first transmission being queued as the `Server` object is created within the database.
